---
title: Wrapping up 2012
category: Misc
date: "2012-12-31T22:00:00.000Z"
archived: true
---

Going back to [my post at the beginning of 2012](/blog/2012-is-full-of-goals) when I set out goals for the first time, it has now reached the end of 2012 and it's time to review my progress.

## Contribute to open source projects

This hasn't gone as well as I would have liked. I have had ~10 pull requests accepted over the year, all of which have been reasonably small (less than 5-10 lines changed). It is a start though and I have been working on my own JavaScript framework for a while now, but that may be a few more months before it gets released publicly as I am building applications with it to funnel the direction a few tricky areas are going to go in.
Overall I am going to try more often to open source modular things I have built and try to contribute bug fixes and improvements to the libraries I use.

## Write at least 2 quality blog posts per month

This has been a massive failure, it is probably a crazy goal, quality blog posts are going to take a lot more time for a writer as bad as myself, trying to do two a month in a short amount of time is never going to work.

I think going forward I will write more often, at least every couple of days and then I hope the quality will improve over time with practise.

## Building apps

* Launch and validate 2 apps
* Build a native iPhone or Mac app and have it in the app store
* Build either a native android or windows phone app and have it in the marketplace

These three goals are kind of stupid. Don't even think about launching two apps without first having a great business or product ideas, or at least something tangibly useful.

In the course of 2012 I have worked on several apps though, but this didn't come from me trying to meet this goal, it came naturually like it should have all along.

The main attraction of the year was [Hedgeho.gg](http://hedgeho.gg/), a content platform to make it easier to create and discover professional content–this took the majority of my app building time and has taught me a lot.

In terms of building for the various platforms I have gathered experience with the Mac and iOS ecosystems, and have found out that the mac apps, particularly UI interfaces are about 10 years behind the iOS experience. I still haven't touched android and barely scratched the surface of windows phone, but will concentrate on business more in the future, rather than on platforms.

I've another post coming shortly outlining what I'll be focusing on in 2013.

**The end.**
